Are you ready to build your website?
Here is a list of steps to prepare before you hire someone to build a website for you:

1. CHOOSE YOUR DOMAIN NAME FOR YOUR WEBSITE.
Assuming you have your company name already, what will your small business or personal domain name name be?  An example: www.yourcompanyname.com.  Is it available?  You can check for site name availability at www.whois.com.  If it is taken, then think of adding a city after. If you are in New York City then check www.YourCompanyNamenyc.com.  Note: Clients always ask if they should get a .net, .biz, .org, .us etc. When in doubt, go for a .com first, still in doubt? We can advise you and help you secure the a domain name that is best for your growing business.

2. WHAT OTHER BUSINESS WEBSITES DO YOU LIKE.

Do your research! See what your competitors are doing. Write down the websites that you like... even if they are not in the same business as you.

3. HOW DO YOU WANT TO ORGANIZE YOUR WEBSITE.

Figure out your Menu links, how to phrase them and what sequence they should be in. For ex. Services, About, Blog, Contact.

4. HOW DO YOU WANT YOUR WEBSITE TO LOOK AND FEEL.

Think of five adjectives that would best describe the look and feel of what you would like for your website. This is very helpful if you hire someone to design and build your web site. Ex. Simple, Earthy, Vibrant, Sophisticated, Clean...

5. HOW TO CHOOSE THE COLORS FOR YOUR WEBSITE.

Look at the websites that you love, and see what background color they use, colors for the menu links, accent colors for rollovers or headers. Websites with dark background colors are great if your main focus is photography, but it can make the text difficult to read as it can be straining on the eyes. A color palette from nature can often be more pleasing and welcoming.

6. CHOOSING WEBSITE PHOTOS AND IMAGES.

A lot of our clients are art galleries or designers who want the art to be the main focus of their site. But if you don't have any images, check out istockphoto.com and start gathering a library of images that you think might work for your website. Images can communicate who you and your small business are sometimes quicker and more powerful that words alone can do.

7. FINDING YOUR FAVORITE WEB FRIENDLY FONT.

There are millions of fonts, but not all of them are "web friendly". Different people have different fonts installed on their computers, thus the need for a standard set of fonts. This ensures that your website will look the same on all computers - PC or MAC.  Do you like Sans-serif or Serif fonts? *NOTE: A list of my favorite web friendly fonts will be my next post.*

8. WRITING CONTENT FOR YOUR WEBSITE.

Sit down and write a paragraph or two for each of the pages that need it. Keep it short 2 or 3 paragraphs, visitors don't like reading--most people skim. Pick the right tone of your content as it will make your website more pleasant to read.

9. FINDING THE RIGHT WEBSITE DESIGNER.

Always look through the web designer's portfolio and see if there are a few sites they have designed that you like. If you like several of their designs, you most likely share a similar aesthetic. Once you find a few web design studios, determine your budget and know your spending constraints before you begin negotiating with web design studios.

10. SHOULD I LOOK FOR A WEB DEVELOPER OR A WEB DESIGNER?

Web design usually refers to the process of designing the web site layout including all the images and content on a page. Web development usually describes the coding part or the back end area of the site that visitors don't see. If you are looking for someone to create your whole website for you, make sure you clarify that the service you are signing up for includes both the web design and development.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
